If you’re looking for a university that combines rigorous academics with a vibrant campus culture, we encourage you to apply. To get started, select the application that’s right for you below.

Which type of applicant are you?

Freshman

If you will be graduating from high school soon or have not enrolled in any post-secondary coursework after high school graduation, apply as a freshman.

Graduate

If you have completed at least a bachelor’s degree and are seeking an academic certificate, master’s or doctoral degree in your field, you should apply as a graduate student.

Other Applicant Types

Certificates for Current Undergraduate Students

If you are a current undergraduate UTD student and wish to apply for an academic certificate, you should apply through your UTD Student Center in Orion.

Eligibility

You must be a current undergraduate UTD student.

Each certificate may have different admission criteria, so you will only see options for which you qualify to apply.

How to Apply

Go to your UTD Student Center and select the Apply to a Certificate Program tile.

Select and complete the application for the certificate you wish to pursue.

Important Notes

If admitted, you must enroll in coursework for the term you are applying for; otherwise, admission to the program will be canceled.

If admitted to the certificate program, you will still need to apply for graduation for the program.

International Transient/Visiting

International students attending another four-year institution who wish to take classes at UT Dallas for one semester only should apply using the Visiting Student application on ApplyTexas.

Eligibility

You must be currently attending an accredited institution outside of the U.S. and seek a four-year degree through that home institution.

You must be in good academic standing at your current institution.

If you have already attended UT Dallas as a transient/visiting student and wish to complete another semester, you must reapply as a transfer student.

How to Apply

Complete a Visiting Student application on ApplyTexas, selecting UG International Student Enrolled at a Non-US Institution as your first-choice major.

Indicate the major in which you wish to take courses.

Submit an official college transcript for the institution you currently attend.

Pay the $75 application fee.

Non-Degree Seeking

Students interested in taking undergraduate courses or pursuing an Undergraduate Certificate at UT Dallas without completing a degree must apply for admission as non-degree-seeking students.

Eligibility

Non-Degree Seeking applicants who have either completed college-level coursework (after completion of high school) or have already completed a bachelor’s or equivalent degree.

Coursework is subject to availability. For additional information, applicants are encouraged to contact the school’s advising department where they hope to take classes.

Students pursuing Natural Sciences and Mathematics coursework should contact the Office of Admission and Enrollment.

Students interested in pursuing an Undergraduate Certificate must first be admitted as non-degree-seeking students. Students can apply for Undergraduate Certificates in their Orion Student Center after admission. Please contact your department for more information on certificate programs.

How to Apply

Complete a Transfer or Visiting Student application on ApplyTexas, selecting Undergraduate, Non-Degree as your major choice. You will then be prompted to indicate the UT Dallas school where you plan to take coursework.

Official transcript(s) reflecting, at minimum, the last 30 undergraduate semester credit hours earned.  Applicants who have already completed a bachelor’s degree must also submit an official transcript showing degree conferral.

Pay the $75 application fee at utdallas.edu/payfee.

If you are interested in taking graduate classes or teacher certification as a graduate, non-degree-seeking student, you must submit an application through the graduate application.

Returning/Readmission

If you have completed at least one semester at UT Dallas and have not been enrolled at UT Dallas within the last three long semesters (excluding summer), you should apply for readmission through ApplyTexas.

Current students do not need to reapply for admission if they have been enrolled in UT Dallas classes within the last three long semesters (Fall, Spring).

More information is available through the undergraduate catalog.

Second Bachelor’s Degree

If you have already completed an undergraduate, bachelor’s level or equivalent degree program and would like to pursue a second undergraduate program, apply as a second bachelor’s degree-seeking student.

Eligibility

Coursework is subject to availability, and applicants are encouraged to contact the advising department for the School they are hoping to take classes in for additional information.

Students pursuing coursework in Natural Sciences and Mathematics (NSM) should contact the Office of Admission and Enrollment.

How to Apply

For more information, contact the academic department to which you are applying.

Students pursuing coursework within NSM should contact the Office of Admission and Enrollment.

Upon acknowledgment from the academic department, complete the ApplyTexas Application for transfer students, select the program you want to pursue, and list your academic history reflecting completing an undergraduate program.

Submit official college transcripts for every institution attended, including one reflecting degree conferral.

Submit an essay detailing the coursework you wish to complete at UT Dallas.

Pay the $75 application fee.

Transient/Visiting

Students attending another four-year institution who wish to take classes at UT Dallas for one semester should only apply using the Visiting Student application on ApplyTexas.

Eligibility

You must currently attend another U.S. institution and be seeking a degree through that home institution.

You must be in good academic standing at your current institution.

If you have already attended UT Dallas as a transient/visiting student and wish to complete another semester, you must reapply as a transfer student.

How to Apply

Complete a Visiting Student application on ApplyTexas, selecting UGRD Non-Degree Transient — enrolled at another 4-year institution as your major of choice.

Submit an official college transcript for the institution you currently attend.

Pay the $75 application fee.

Questions?